standalone/classifications/rapideye/mac_windows/instructions.md, before:

#Rapideye classification

We have two approaches for classification of rapideye images:

* Simple

Which we are going to test.

* Regional and temporal

This approach uses images that have similar regional and temporal characteristics. We use an ESRI shapefile `mapgrid` to define several regions that consists of rapideye tiles sharing common regional properties. As each rapideye image in a different time has different reflectances for each phase of vegetation, we use a seasonality window defined by a date and a buffer of days. This buffer also depends on the amount of images that we have for the given date.

#Requirements

* We need an installation of docker tools in the system : https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox

This includes the client docker and docker-machine.

* An installation of virtualbox in the system: https://www.virtualbox.org/

* Create a directory `/Users/workshop_user/workshop`

```
$mkdir -p /Users/workshop_user/workshop
```

* Change directory `/Users/workshop_user/workshop`

```
$cd /Users/workshop_user/workshop
```

* Create a machine called `workshop`

```
$docker-machine create -d virtualbox workshop
```

* Make sure that this machine has at least 6 gb of ram, if not, stop it and give this amount of ram

* Get the ip of the machine:

```
$docker-machine ip workshop
```

Assume this ip is `192.168.99.100`


Pull the next image from docker hub:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) pull madmex/antares
```

Create a directory `workshop` with the next line:

```
$ sudo mkdir /workshop
```

Change directory to directory `workshop`

```
$cd /workshop
```

#Setting up the database


Using the command line of your system, run the next line:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) run --hostname database --name postgres-server-madmex \
-v /Users/workshop_user/workshop:/entry_for_database -p 32852:22 \
-p 32851:5432 -dt madmex/postgres-server
```


Create user `madmex_user` with password `madmex_user.` using the next line:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex \
psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 \
-c "CREATE USER madmex_user WITH PASSWORD 'madmex_user.'"
```

Create database `madmex_database` with owner `madmex_user`

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 -c "CREATE DATABASE madmex_database WITH OWNER = madmex_user ENCODING = 'UTF8' TABLESPACE = pg_default TEMPLATE = template0 CONNECTION LIMIT = -1;"
```

Install extension postgis in `madmex_database`

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 -d madmex_database -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis"
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 -d madmex_database -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis_topology"
```

Clone madmex code into directory: `/Users/workshop_user/workshop/code_madmex_antares`

```
$git clone https://github.com/CONABIO/madmex-antares.git code_madmex_antares
```

Create directory `/Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration`:

```
$sudo mkdir -p /Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration
```

Create `configuration.ini` in path: `/Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration/configuration.ini`, with an editor, for example using command `nano`:

```
$nano /Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration/configuration.ini
```

And copy-paste the next lines:


```
[madmex]
log_level = DEBUG
antares_database = postgresql://madmex_user:madmex_user.@192.168.99.100:32851/madmex_database
date_format = %%Y-%%m-%%d
rapideye_footprints_mexico_old = False
folder_segmentation = /User/workshop_user/workshop/segmentation/segmentation:/segmentation/
folder_segmentation_license = /Users/workshop_user/workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license/license.txt:/segmentation/license.txt
training_data = /workshop/training_data/globalland_caribe_geo_proj.vrt
big_folder = /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc/
big_folder_host = /Users/workshop_user/workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc/:/results
landmask_path /workshop/landmask/countries_caribe/
```

We exit nano with `ctrl+x` and then type `y`in your keyboard to save changes.

Execute the following command:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) run -p 2225:22 -v /Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration/configuration.ini:/workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/configuration/configuration.ini -v /Users/workshop_user/workshop:/workshop --hostname=madmex-antares --name madmex_antares_container -dit madmex/antares /bin/bash
```

Enter to docker container `madmex_antares_container`

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -it madmex_antares_container /bin/bash
```

Change directory `/workshop/code_madmex_antares`

```
#cd /workshop/code_madmex_antares
```

Install madmex:

```
#python setup.py install
```


Change directory `/workshop/`

```
#cd /workshop
```

Run the next script for creating the database:

```
#python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/persistence/database/populate.py
```


##Classification


Crete directory `/workshop/training_data`:

```
$mkdir -p /workshop/training_data
```

Copy training data to `/workshop/training_data`

```
$cp training_data.tif /workshop/training_data
```

Create directory `/workshop/segmentation`

```
$mkdir -p /workshop/segmentation
```

Change directory `/workshop/segmentation`

```
cd /workshop/segmentation
```

Clone https://github.com/CONABIO/docker-segmentation.git

```
git clone https://github.com/CONABIO/docker-segmentation.git .
```

Change directory `/workshop/segmentation/segmentation`

```
$cd /workshop/segmentation/segmentation
```


Create directory `/workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license`

```
$mkdir -p /workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license
```

Create archive `license.txt` in `/workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license`

For this workshop we can use the license: `67156997172`

```
echo 67156997172 > /workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license/license.txt
```

Enter madmex antares

```
$sudo docker exec -it madmex_antares_container /bin/bash
```

Register host and command in tables of database giving the ip of the machine and the user docker with it's password:

```
#python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex remotecall --register host 172.17.0.1 madmex_run_container docker tcuser 22 workshop
```

```
#python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex remotecall --register command workshop run_container workshop.q 
```

For rapideye classification

* Create directory for shapefile of landmask: `/workshop/landmask/countries_caribe`

```
#mkdir -p /workshop/landmask/countries_caribe
```

Copy archives of ESRI shapefile to: `/workshop/landmask/countries_caribe`

```
#cp countries_caribe.*  /workshop/landmask/countries_caribe
```

Create directories `/workshop/eodata/rapideye_images` and `/workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc`

```
#mkdir -p /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images
#mkdir -p /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc
```

Copy rapideye images to directory:  `/workshop/eodata/rapideye_images`

```
#cp image.tif /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images
```


Change `configuration.ini` (if necessary) with lines:

```
training_data = /workshop/training_data/globalland_caribe_geo_proj.vrt
big_folder = /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc/
```


If you changed `configuration.ini`, you need to install madmex again:

```
#cd /workshop/code_madmex_antares
#python setup.py install
```

Change directory /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc

```
#cd /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc
```
The image that we are going to classify is from Dominican Republic:

![rep_dominicana_imagen_original.png](../rep_dominicana_imagen_original.png)

The training data for this classification is:


![rep_dominicana_training_data.png](../rep_dominicana_training_data.png)

Run classification rapideye command:

```
python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex rapideyesimpleclassification --image /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images/1947604_2015-01-05_RE1_3A_298768.tif --outlier True
```

![rep_dominicana.png](../rep_dominicana.png)

Jamaica original image:

![jamaica_imagen_original.png](../jamaica_imagen_original.png)

```
python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex rapideyesimpleclassification --image /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images/jamaica/1847306_2014-10-06_RE5_3A_275562.tif --outlier True
```
Training data:

![jamaica_training_data.png](../jamaica_training_data.png)

Result of classification:
![jamaica_globeland30.png](../jamaica_globeland30.png)

Commit message:

adding training data and classif used for jamaica classif

standalone/classifications/rapideye/mac_windows/instructions.md, after:

#Rapideye classification

We have two approaches for classification of rapideye images:

* Simple

Which we are going to test.

* Regional and temporal

This approach uses images that have similar regional and temporal characteristics. We use an ESRI shapefile `mapgrid` to define several regions that consists of rapideye tiles sharing common regional properties. As each rapideye image in a different time has different reflectances for each phase of vegetation, we use a seasonality window defined by a date and a buffer of days. This buffer also depends on the amount of images that we have for the given date.

#Requirements

* We need an installation of docker tools in the system : https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox

This includes the client docker and docker-machine.

* An installation of virtualbox in the system: https://www.virtualbox.org/

* Create a directory `/Users/workshop_user/workshop`

```
$mkdir -p /Users/workshop_user/workshop
```

* Change directory `/Users/workshop_user/workshop`

```
$cd /Users/workshop_user/workshop
```

* Create a machine called `workshop`

```
$docker-machine create -d virtualbox workshop
```

* Make sure that this machine has at least 6 gb of ram, if not, stop it and give this amount of ram

* Get the ip of the machine:

```
$docker-machine ip workshop
```

Assume this ip is `192.168.99.100`


Pull the next image from docker hub:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) pull madmex/antares
```

Create a directory `workshop` with the next line:

```
$ sudo mkdir /workshop
```

Change directory to directory `workshop`

```
$cd /workshop
```

#Setting up the database


Using the command line of your system, run the next line:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) run --hostname database --name postgres-server-madmex \
-v /Users/workshop_user/workshop:/entry_for_database -p 32852:22 \
-p 32851:5432 -dt madmex/postgres-server
```


Create user `madmex_user` with password `madmex_user.` using the next line:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex \
psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 \
-c "CREATE USER madmex_user WITH PASSWORD 'madmex_user.'"
```

Create database `madmex_database` with owner `madmex_user`

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 -c "CREATE DATABASE madmex_database WITH OWNER = madmex_user ENCODING = 'UTF8' TABLESPACE = pg_default TEMPLATE = template0 CONNECTION LIMIT = -1;"
```

Install extension postgis in `madmex_database`

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 -d madmex_database -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis"
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -u=postgres -it postgres-server-madmex psql -h $(docker-machine ip workshop) -p 32851 -d madmex_database -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis_topology"
```

Clone madmex code into directory: `/Users/workshop_user/workshop/code_madmex_antares`

```
$git clone https://github.com/CONABIO/madmex-antares.git code_madmex_antares
```

Create directory `/Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration`:

```
$sudo mkdir -p /Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration
```

Create `configuration.ini` in path: `/Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration/configuration.ini`, with an editor, for example using command `nano`:

```
$nano /Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration/configuration.ini
```

And copy-paste the next lines:


```
[madmex]
log_level = DEBUG
antares_database = postgresql://madmex_user:madmex_user.@192.168.99.100:32851/madmex_database
date_format = %%Y-%%m-%%d
rapideye_footprints_mexico_old = False
folder_segmentation = /User/workshop_user/workshop/segmentation/segmentation:/segmentation/
folder_segmentation_license = /Users/workshop_user/workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license/license.txt:/segmentation/license.txt
training_data = /workshop/training_data/globalland_caribe_geo_proj.vrt
big_folder = /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc/
big_folder_host = /Users/workshop_user/workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc/:/results
landmask_path /workshop/landmask/countries_caribe/
```

We exit nano with `ctrl+x` and then type `y`in your keyboard to save changes.

Execute the following command:

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) run -p 2225:22 -v /Users/workshop_user/workshop/configuration/configuration.ini:/workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/configuration/configuration.ini -v /Users/workshop_user/workshop:/workshop --hostname=madmex-antares --name madmex_antares_container -dit madmex/antares /bin/bash
```

Enter to docker container `madmex_antares_container`

```
$docker $(docker-machine config workshop) exec -it madmex_antares_container /bin/bash
```

Change directory `/workshop/code_madmex_antares`

```
#cd /workshop/code_madmex_antares
```

Install madmex:

```
#python setup.py install
```


Change directory `/workshop/`

```
#cd /workshop
```

Run the next script for creating the database:

```
#python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/persistence/database/populate.py
```


##Classification


Crete directory `/workshop/training_data`:

```
$mkdir -p /workshop/training_data
```

Copy training data to `/workshop/training_data`

```
$cp training_data.tif /workshop/training_data
```

Create directory `/workshop/segmentation`

```
$mkdir -p /workshop/segmentation
```

Change directory `/workshop/segmentation`

```
cd /workshop/segmentation
```

Clone https://github.com/CONABIO/docker-segmentation.git

```
git clone https://github.com/CONABIO/docker-segmentation.git .
```

Change directory `/workshop/segmentation/segmentation`

```
$cd /workshop/segmentation/segmentation
```


Create directory `/workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license`

```
$mkdir -p /workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license
```

Create archive `license.txt` in `/workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license`

For this workshop we can use the license: `67156997172`

```
echo 67156997172 > /workshop/segmentation/segmentation/license/license.txt
```

Enter madmex antares

```
$sudo docker exec -it madmex_antares_container /bin/bash
```

Register host and command in tables of database giving the ip of the machine and the user docker with it's password:

```
#python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex remotecall --register host 172.17.0.1 madmex_run_container docker tcuser 22 workshop
```

```
#python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex remotecall --register command workshop run_container workshop.q 
```

For rapideye classification

* Create directory for shapefile of landmask: `/workshop/landmask/countries_caribe`

```
#mkdir -p /workshop/landmask/countries_caribe
```

Copy archives of ESRI shapefile to: `/workshop/landmask/countries_caribe`

```
#cp countries_caribe.*  /workshop/landmask/countries_caribe
```

Create directories `/workshop/eodata/rapideye_images` and `/workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc`

```
#mkdir -p /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images
#mkdir -p /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc
```

Copy rapideye images to directory:  `/workshop/eodata/rapideye_images`

```
#cp image.tif /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images
```


Change `configuration.ini` (if necessary) with lines:

```
training_data = /workshop/training_data/globalland_caribe_geo_proj.vrt
big_folder = /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc/
```


If you changed `configuration.ini`, you need to install madmex again:

```
#cd /workshop/code_madmex_antares
#python setup.py install
```

Change directory /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc

```
#cd /workshop/classification/rapideye_simple_lcc
```
The image that we are going to classify is from Dominican Republic:

![rep_dominicana_imagen_original.png](../rep_dominicana_imagen_original.png)

The training data for this classification is:


![rep_dominicana_training_data.png](../rep_dominicana_training_data.png)

Run classification rapideye command:

```
python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex rapideyesimpleclassification --image /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images/1947604_2015-01-05_RE1_3A_298768.tif --outlier True
```

![rep_dominicana.png](../rep_dominicana.png)

Jamaica original image:

![jamaica_imagen_original.png](../jamaica_imagen_original.png)

```
python /workshop/code_madmex_antares/madmex/bin/madmex rapideyesimpleclassification --image /workshop/eodata/rapideye_images/jamaica/1847306_2014-10-06_RE5_3A_275562.tif --outlier True
```
Training data from globeland30

![jamaica_training_data.png](../jamaica_training_data.png)

Result of classification:
![jamaica_globeland30.png](../jamaica_globeland30.png)

Training data from ESA2010

![jamaica_training_data_esa2010.png](../jamaica_training_data_esa2010.png)

Result of classification:

![jamaica_esa2010.png](../jamaica_esa2010.png)
